# Comparison with Vienna

The scripts provided in this folder are used to apply the RNAfold program of
the ViennaRNA package to the same targets as the network and then transform
the output into the same format as the network outputs, so the normal plotting
tools can be applied.


## Evaluate vienna

Usage: `eval_vienna.sh src-folder vienna-folder`

Applies the Vienna RNAfold program to the same targets the network worked on.  
Generates a subfolder `Vienna` that can then be evaluated with the plotting
scripts like a usual network output folder.
Requires an installation of the [ViennaRNA package](https://www.tbi.univie.ac.at/RNA/).  
To be used on the output folder of a network run.

* `src-folder`: The `src` folder of this repository (containing `rnafolding.py`)

* `vienna-folder`: The folder of your ViennaRNA installation


## Parse vienna output

Usage: `parse_vienna_output.py targets-file`

Transforms the folding predictions of Vienna RNAfold into the format used
by the deep learning implementation. Used in `eval_vienna.sh`.

* `targets-file`: The `targets.json` output of a training run.


## Print targets JSON

Usage: `print_targets_json.py vienna-file targets-file output-path`

Outputs the folding targets from a JSON file. Used in `eval_vienna.sh`.

* `vienna-file`: The output file generated by the RNAfold program

* `targets-file`: The `targets.json` output by a run of the deep learning network.

* `output-path`: The folder to store the results in
